gados was always meant to be a dragon in
fact its entire design is based on the
legend of a carp that jumped over the
Dragon's Gate and turned into a dragon
in Chinese and Japanese
mythology but game freak never gave it
its true typing as a water dragon
Pokémon which raises the question just
how overpowered would it be if it got
this ridiculous
typing last time with our dragon fire
Charizard we found that the dragon
typing was a massive Advantage allowing
Charizard to beat the game on nearly
minimum battles and get some pretty free
setups even against some of its toughest
opponents opponents like Lance whose
Gyarados usually completely destroys
Charizard were actually incredibly easy
but will Gyarados get as much of a power
boost from this type change it only
takes a quick glance at the type
weaknesses of a water dragon type to
realize why game freak might have
thought that this would be too strong
because the only actual weakness of a
water dragon Pokemon would be dragon
type but in gen one the only dragon type
move is Dragon Rage which does fixed 40
damage so effectively our water dragon
Gyarados is going to have no type
weaknesses in the entire run but there's
another Factor the way that the AI
determines type effect
it's not as simple as it calculates the
maximum amount of damage like it does in
Gen 2 or that it tests each type and
finds the move that is super effective
no it uses this incredibly long
convoluted list and it just takes the
first interaction that shows up and
since basically all interactions with
the dragon type are at the very bottom
of the list the game basically just
treats this as a water type Pokemon
unless it actually knows Dragon rage in
a particular fight so it's not actually
clear what strategies the opponents are
always going to use against our Gyarados
if it's actually going to pan out to be
better with this Dragon typing added on
there's only one way to find out so
let's do a full game solo run with it
now as a second in a four-part series
let's review the rules for this
challenge run for this series we are
replacing the Pokémon secondary typing
with the dragon type so Gyarados will be
a water dragon type in this run all
other aspects of their move sets are
going to remain completely unchanged
they're just going to get the same moves
that they would normally learn
throughout the game the Pokemon will be
compared to its unaltered form in terms
of time in terms of final level and in
terms of score on my tier listing system
because there could be cases where for
example the Pokemon might take fewer
resets to beat the game but have to rely
more on TMS since it doesn't have as
many same type attacking moves so we're
just going to have to see how it
actually pans out all of my other
standard solar running rules apply we're
not going to use items in battle we're
going to run on zero DVS or zero IVs for
those coming from later gens so that we
know that we're running the weakest
possible version of this Pokémon we're
going to ban stat boosting vitamins like
protein and carbos though we will allow
rare candies only when we get to the
leag I will avoid taking optional
battles unless they're actually
necessary but those cases I will be
leveling up to the next damage rounding
threshold if you don't know about damage
rounding thresholds it's basically every
time you have a level that ends in 0 3 5
or 8 the damage that's done by the
Pokemon goes up by a little bit more in
those particular levels place your bets
in the comment section below if you
think Gyarados is going to be better
with the dragon typing and with that
being said let's get into it so here we
go we're going to start a brand new game
here and as I go through this I'm going
to just go as quickly as I possibly can
this why we've got our name set our
Rivals name set we've got our Pokémon's
name set lots of stuff is already set in
and I got to get my mouse pointer off of
this this is the one major problem of
the new overlay is that it will capture
the mouse pointer if it's on top of the
the Retro Arch terrible terrible it's
trash we should just throw the Run
already into Professor Oak's trash can
right there so here we go we're going to
save the game let's just go ahead and
get into the Rival one fight we have the
same player name and whatnot as last
time so here rival one should just be a
matter of holding down Auto a and just
tackling this Eevee it turns out to be a
five hit KO that's not great but you
know it'll get better I'm sure I'm sure
of this so now what I found is this last
time when we were trying to go up
against Brock what we found was that we
had to be at level 13 in order to
consistently beat Brock dude at level 13
it is very consistent I can say from a
lot of testing on this that you
basically just get to level 13 and then
you blackout grind against Brock until
you manage to beat him the strategy is
basically like this last time we just
fought every trainer in here and then
made our way to Brock's gym instead this
time what we're going to do we're only
going to fight this last bug catcher we
are now at level five we're just going
to spam tackle here I expect to win here
because he can also use string shot
which doesn't really have any purpose
and there we go yes easy win easy easy
win so now we're just going to pop up
north we're going to heal here in petor
City this is very important because it's
about time to do some blackout grinding
so what we're going to do we're going to
pop into brocky boy's gym here I'm just
going to save the game just to be safe
and let's fight the Lightyear's Junior
trainer his first Pokemon is Diglett
Diglett does not have great defense and
HP which means means in spite of the
fact that we're at a fairly low level we
can beat that Diglett very consistently
and now we can consistently also lose to
the sandrew which is perfectly fine
we're in the slow level up group we need
a lot of XP in order to get to level 13
in order to have a decent chance against
Brock at least just getting through the
Geodude so we're just going to grind
here for a while oh no oh no we beat him
okay we get to level 10 there at least
we got to hope that this is fine think
we still wanted to lose there what it
all comes down to I think is we have to
get to at least level 12 if we can get
to level 12 then we at least have a
decent shot of being able to blackout
grind against Brock if not I may have to
restart the entire run just because we
got too good of a range there on that uh
Lightyear's Junior trainer this is a
spot where we don't want to get lucky
enough to beat him here we are going to
fight against rival 1A this might seem a
little weird like we wouldn't even mind
if he knocks us out here honestly but
here we got through we do get to level
12 very nice now the only issue is we've
got a little less XP than I had last
time when I tested this oh we struggled
there I'm going to stick with the
struggle strats I think I think that's
the way to go we'll we'll use struggle
because struggle is slightly stronger so
here I'm just going to heal up with
potions let's save the game let's go
into this
fight
[Music]
here I'm just going to spam
struggle and we're doing decent enough
damage it looks like that we should get
through this one so very nice struggle
is enough to be able to beat the Geodude
at level 12 here we're just going to
knock ourselves out there that's
perfectly fine that's exactly what we
wanted but here now we have to still
beat him two more times I don't want to
go use up all my people against wild
Pokémon or anything like I said we're
only fighting trainers here for XP
unless it's a required battle for some
reason like the ghost Marowak and uh
here we got a couple nice misses from
him but now we're missing no and so you
can see like this is not really
consistent it comes down to Critical
Hits misses like there's a bunch of
stuff that has to kind of happen here we
just need to get that level look there
we go we get to level 13 that's what we
wanted now we still are not likely at
level 13 to beat the Onyx and it's
because it can use B and we cannot avoid
damaging it so we're just going to have
to keep grinding here but the grind gets
faster at this point because of the fact
that we can simply beat up on the
Geodude let's just keep this going come
on yude you you want to get critical hit
that's what you want you want the crit
buddy there we go nice we're on to Onyx
with 38 HP remaining he's only doing one
damage per hit with bind at this point
so B's not not that bad keeps using B
though come on come on Brock don't you
know it's a trash move okay but here he
uses bide and then we miss but we knock
him out there we go we get to level 17
oh Brocks 19 minutes 29 seconds to beat
him that is not ideal but we'll take it
so in a somewhat disappointing start
gyos actually struggles hard against
Brock and Pokemon Yellow it has nothing
to do with the typing it's just because
it starts the game with only tackle this
isn't the case in Pokemon Red and Blue
though where it starts the game with
hydrop pump and dragon rage so both of
Brock's Pokemon are one hit Kos in fact
in Pokemon red and blue Gyarados is so
overpowered that I beat the entire game
with a single level five Gyarados I'll
link that run below but for this run
we're sticking with the normal Pokémon
Yellow move set which means that we're
going to have struggles in the early
game against any rock type Pokemon so
while Dragon Charizard was able to beat
Brock on minimum battles in the last run
Dragon Gyarados has taken 19 minutes and
28 optional battles in order to get
through that fight but now we expect
this run to speed up significantly as we
move on to mount Moon get water gun and
take on Misty we're going to heal up
right here let's go over and just beat
everything up on the way to mount Moon
get that water gun TM that is the actual
Strat now now normally I would say let's
not use TMs but here I think water gun
is just such a natural TM to learn for
this Pokemon like I'm going to try to
avoid TMS as much as possible but really
for the sake of speed I think this is
the way to go so here let's fight this
super nerd here I think I'm going to go
water gun I think it's the way to go
specials are less good here I think
tackle is the way to go against volt orb
and here water gun is definitely the
play against the coughing nice nice easy
win we're going to get the dome fossil
guys coming off the Dome let's just save
and come fight Jesse and James I didn't
heal I don't think I need to I think
we've got plenty of HP we're all the way
up at level 18 anyway so here we're just
going to tackle tackle tackle here I
think we can uh water gun the coughing
to death oh we almost one shot it oh
that was too bad that was sad we wanted
to just one shot that coughing no I
think we take on Misty first I think we
at least try her because if we can just
manage to get through this gym we can
get access to
[Music]
Whatchamacallit rate too so here we get
through Misty very easily we get to
level 20 we learn bite we also get
access to Bubble beam which I think
we're just going to slap onto the move
set right away and that way we now have
a very good move set for this next
section so sure enough we easily beat
Misty but this isn't actually any
advantage due to our typing well yes we
have a four times resistance rather than
a two times resistance to water type
moves mti's AI is smart AI using the
term very loosely in gen one which just
means that against any Pokémon that
resists water she's only going to spam
tackle and Harden anyway so at least
through the first two gyms we can
basically say that adding the dragon
typing to Gyarados would have no effect
on the Run whatsoever but we are moving
now into the lieutenant surge section
and while a normal Gyarados would avoid
fighting Lieutenant surge until it got a
lot more levels we might just be able to
go straight into that fight since
electri is only neutrally
effective so I'm just going to heal
let's get the rare candy and go and
fight rival number two let's try this
one right now so here I'm going to move
bubble beam into the top slot there we
go nice here's sandrew get bubble beamed
ratata get bubble beamed here I think we
can bite Eevee yes get bit oh there we
go look at that you got destroyed draal
never had a chance here I'm just going
to heal very quickly just so I have all
the pp we don't want to have PP problems
as we go down to see our rival at that
fancy schmancy party so here let's get
to this Machop the innocent bystander
he's just getting destroyed at this
point oh look at that look at that we
probably should have gone for bite on
The Drowsy but it does not matter it
doesn't matter one bit and let's see we
do learn body slam so that is a strategy
here rip uh did not grab the for ReStore
there it is but yes so we I said before
but I'll say this again we're keeping
this consistent we will get body slam in
these runs and we will get the extra
rare candy on the SSN yes I know they're
optional battles but it's just to keep
everybody Apples to Apples because you
know rather than having some take the
fights some not take the fights they're
logical fights to take so we may as well
just take them it's the same with like
getting the double edge TM uh once we
get the Rocket game corner it's locked
behind an optional rocket but I think
it's just logical to get it basically
for every Pokemon when like when we get
to craw it's definitely going to want
that move we are not going to use
unoriginal strategies like rest so we're
not going to mess with those but we will
come fight this guy so here bubble beam
completely destroys that guy we're going
to get the TM for body slam we are going
to teach it to jarp over tackle nobody
needs tackle everybody wants to body
slam you know the boring part of the run
we're going to come fight an old man
this old man he got dogs we're going to
just do that now it's Pony My Little
Pony just gets wrecked we get the rare
candy let's move on to rival number
three I'm going to save just because I I
like to save at these points here it's
probably not efficient but that's fine
body slam body slam here let's uh just
bubble beam that one nice and then uh
body slam his Eevee oh it's not a one
hitter rip no oh we get to learn Dragon
rage yes we're learning Dragon rage over
water gun I think it's a useful move at
this point cuz it should allow us to
just wreck some things so very nice we
can now move on and uh we've got a nice
move set going on here bubble beam bite
body slam Dragon rage we're looking
pretty good now we have used some TMS of
course like we've got the TM counter
over there showing that we've lost some
points that way but you know we expected
to lose those points guys come on here
we're going to just teach Charmander all
the moves so that he can do his job
we're going to pop right in here we're
going to fight Lieutenant Serge we're we
ain't scared of Lieutenant surge we're
only neutrally affected by Electric
moves now the trash can
puzzle reminds us of how trash
Lieutenant surges
but
[Music]
so here let's get to this one we are
going to body slam him and uh
here just a couple bubble beams there we
go we take him down easily easily easily
easily I'm not sure which was better to
use bubble beam or use body slam or even
to use Dragon rage was probably the
actual best play but so here we have the
wrapping glass I'm going to body Slammer
I think this is the play oh yeah look at
the body slams just destroy her Pokémon
nice we don't have to worry about grass
types if we just body slam to death like
this so here against The Rock Tunnel
hiker bubble beam time and we just
destroy him and here at about 33 minutes
in Bomberman goes down and we get a move
on so cool cool cool cool we have made
progress though we are going to pop
right up here we're going to go to the
fifth floor we're going to
now come over here
let's buy two fresh waters we only need
the two I don't think we're going for
hyperbeam cuz we learned it by a level
up anyway here so if we get to a high
enough level we'll just learn hyperbeam
that way
but we will get access to ice beam and I
think Ice Beam is super important in
this section and now I think the first
step is to go into the Rocket game
Corner we like you could say minimize
ing battles use the Poké doll glitch I
prefer not to I only do that in my super
minimum battles runs so instead we're
just going to pop up here and see this
dude and be like hey what's up dude have
a bubble beam and I'm gonna body slam
your
bat somehow you body slam a bat it works
it just
works so here we can get the pp up we've
got two PP UPS now guys amazing we're
GNA fight this guy because we can get
double-edge and we can get an extra
nugget over here it's not like it's
necessarily needed but they're easy one
hit Kos there anyway on those maops so
just go there get the tm10 get the
Nugget
nice so here Jesse and James they're
going to try to challenge us we're going
to try to humiliate them we are up to
level 29 now and the body slams should
make quick work right there very nice on
to Giovani sorry I save a lot I know
they're unnecessary but here we're just
going to hold down a on Bubble beam and
it should completely wreck these
Pokemon so yes the Persian is doing
decent damage but we knock it out nicely
and there we go so now we can go ahead
and just dig on out of here I am going
to now go to Lavender let's get this
part done cuz these should be easy
fights before we go take on
Erica so here in lavender oh there we go
rival number four time the strategy is
clearly to go for Ice Beam that's a one
shot shelder is going to get dragon
raged because it's only going to use
supic anyway Vulpix gets bubble beamed
the sandrew gets bubble beamed and now
the Eevee I think we just body slam it
to death there we go nice so we easily
easily easily win we've taken 31
optional battles up to this point though
so uh we can't feel great about this but
all of those except the couple were
basically before Brock Jesse and James
time let's go 41 minutes in okay so here
bubble beam is just going to not one
shot there that's ridiculous uh here
let's go bubble Beam on arbach it's
going to be a two hitter and now we've
got to deal with the
wheezing bubble beam is technically
stronger but it just didn't get the job
done we should have twoot it with the
dragon rage that would have been the way
to go but very nice we've gotten through
that fight we can now heal up and uh I'm
going to go take on erot actually this
should not actually be a hard fight I
don't think I don't think think is the
operative word
[Music]
here we're just going to go Ice
Beam it's going to be an easy two hitter
there oh I didn't even heal coming into
this fight rip we freezed the Weeping
Bell nice and now she goes for stunts
boor misses easy win easy easy easy win
she has nothing guys nothing at all I
say so comparing to a normal Gyarados
there's absolutely no difference in the
Erica fight the way that the game
determines type Effectiveness means that
she's still is going to spam grass moves
against us the fact that we have ice
beam even with a normal Gyarados makes
this a pretty simple fight at this level
so halfway through the game only one
battle has actually been affected by
this type change the lieutenant surge
battle but even that one's doable with
resets or you could just put them off
until just before Giovani so really
there's no benefit in the first half of
Pokémon Yellow to having the dragon
typing but that might be about to ch
change as we get to the massive level
jump that happens around rival 5 and Kaa
so here let's uh
cycle and I think we're going to go down
to koga's gym very quickly so here we
are going to fight this juggler I think
body slam is the name of the game here
okay we don't onot them I think we will
one shot here against Kadabra though
sbeam did a lot of damage but we do take
it out we get headbutt but I think
that's fine there we go now I don't
think we necessarily want to fight Koga
yet koga's AI is set where he's just
going to sit here and spam uh sleep
powder with the first and the Third
venats on his team the reason is because
the game actually has a set order in
which it tests for type
Effectiveness and basically it just goes
from the top of the list to the bottom
of the list and once it finds any
Interac
action it just pops out of the list and
what happens is that the part of grass
being super effective against water is
higher up in the list of the
interactions that the game checks than
grass being resisted by Dragon so a
water dragon type will end up in
situations where the AI the quote
unquote smart AI of the game will always
want to use grass type moves against it
on the the other hand it's not going to
want to use ice moves against us because
it's going to think that ice is resisted
by water and that's the interaction that
checks first let's just see let's see
how this fight looks at this point so
here we're just going to surf against
the sand slash that's an easy win we're
going to surf against Ninetails which
also is oh not a one hit ko. we get
quick attack there Thunderbolt on the
Closter looks to be a two
hitter now we've made it to Kadabra
against whom I think body slam is the
play we do want shot there jolon will
use thundershock 100% of the time now we
did not heal before that fight so I
think if we heal let's just do that
sorry guys slight inefficiency there but
we did Scout we did get good information
so here let's try this again surf is
going to take out the sand slash nice
nin Tales might be a range here I'm not
sure here we'll just body slam him down
from there Thunderbolt to the Closter
Super Sonic misses this time we're still
on full health going into
cadabra it does hit that sbeam but I
think that's okay I'm actually going to
body slam the jolon I was hoping for uh
paralysis there but it doesn't matter we
get through just fine easy win and it's
all because of the fact that our
weaknesses of you know normal weaknesses
would be Electric and grass they're just
neutrally effective to us you know as a
water type so we don't even have to
worry about the normal water
weaknesses so cool we're making progress
49 minutes not looking too bad we're
going to surf on
Nino and then I'll just uh Ice Beam it
or something to finish it off Persian we
definitely want to surf we one shot
there nice surf here on the ryhorn and
now on the neoc queen surf is going to
be a two hitter not quite a one hitter I
mean our stats just our stats are really
good the problem is that we're in the
slow level up group so we're just
underleveled against everything at this
point so now let's just see if we can
get through Koga or not that is the
question here save the game Ka
time hey so here what I'm going to do
I'm actually going to surf here first
it's not a one hitter but we do get a
nice two hit range there surf on this
one gets the crit so very nice surf here
we do get sleep powdered he's going for
double
edge the X attacks and he gets a
critical hit that's not really ideal and
then we get wrecked okay so it's clear
that Critical Hits can get us through
this so we're going to take a couple
attempts at this at least
you know we can also get misses from
sleep powder it can miss 25% of the
time so that's
fine we get the nice crit there yes here
I'm going to body slam this venomoth
because I kind of want to paralyze it
once it's paralyzed yes he will use
double team but we are faster than him
now I
think oh we're just missing everything
okay there we go we hit a surf he gets
toxic
okay and we land the body slam very good
so we get through Koga just like that
sorry we ran out of surf PP but no
problem cool we are through another gym
so here I think the strategy is to fly
back to pallet we'll come say hi to mom
we'll let her heal us we're going to go
down to blay boy's gym here Tombstone
brothers let's get into this fight
against plane
yes
so here we're just going
to get confused turd one rip looks like
a two hitter with surf on that first um
reflect
again oh blame you Legend oh look at him
he's just like you're using surf against
me I shall reflect
it that's that's not how reflect Works
in Pokemon
buddy he's he's thinking this is a Final
Fantasy game you know if you use Magic
on somebody and they use reflect you
know I'm I'm talking about the old like
Final Fantasy 6 guys come on you know
reflect would bounce
the so the koca fight is essentially the
same whether you have a normal Gyarados
or a dragon Gyarados it's just same
ranges he uses the exact same strategies
against you it's just a matter of
getting the critical hits and Landing
enough attacks in order to knock him out
the real difference in this section was
rival 5 because for a normal Gyarados
with its four times weakness to electric
type moves taking down that jolon is
basically impossible it will always
outspeed and thundershock is the only
move that it will use in the Rival 5
fight that means that Gyarados is not
getting through and we have to go down
to Blain before we can even come back
and fight rival 5 again unless we're
going to take a ton of optional battles
Dragon Gyarados on the other hand
exploits the fact that it's only
neutrally affected by thundershock and
can get through that fight with full
health without any crazy luck
whatsoever and Blaine is another spot
where we get a massive Advantage with
our Dragon Gyarados a normal Gyarados is
too underleveled to really match up well
here in spite of the fact that this
water type moves like flamethrower and
fire blast do way too much damage on the
other hand a dragon Gyarados is four
times resistant to fire making fire type
moves basically a non-factor in this
battle and allowing us us to beat him on
the very first attempt in spite of our
level
disadvantage but now it's on to Sabrina
another gym leader who really shouldn't
be any different for these two Gyarados
but let's see if she's an easy win or if
she knocks us out a bunch of
[Music]
times so we have named her waiu Sabrina
in the new overlay oh we're getting
flashed no come on body Slammer yes body
slam oh we paralyzed the cadabra even
nice Alakazam S waves we paralyze it
come on come on hit her hit her no we
get psychic down rip so uh accuracy it's
it's a thing it's a problem
guys we just need less accuracy nonsense
there we get no
flashes oh sad day and she misses
Kinesis as well she goes
reflect but here we get the critical hit
so second attempt we easily beat Sabrina
we've only got four resets at this point
we're really not doing too bad I think
all of the spots we really could have
gotten through um technically without
crazy luck so I'm I'm pretty happy with
this run so far actually so here let's
pop on up to
[Music]
Giovani
here he goes dig surf does one shot
there
okay goes Screech with the Persian and
then he slashes us I think we can get
guard specs though and get through this
so here we're just trying to get okay he
misses a fissure there that is much
better Screech missed guard specs goes
Fury swipes this time that's kind of
what we wanted to see get get to level
41 we can learn hydropump or maybe no
maybe we just leave our move set as is
so he goes Thunder that's basically fine
guard specs that's also basically fine
he misses a thunder there that's very
fine and then he hits the Thunder and
gets a crit I think we should go take
some more optional battles here so here
let's try this again he misses fissure
this time good he screeches again get a
nice crit there
okay we've still got 107 HP we get the
range on the Neo Queen there we outspeed
Neo King we knock it out nice and then
Ryon is guaranteed one hit K every
single time nice nice nice nice nice
nice I like that I like
that let's go ahead and fight our rival
number
six rival number six
surf just destroys that first Pokemon
nice oh I did didn't mean to go
Thunderbolt rip oh he takes in sunlight
very nice Ice Beam rip I kind of messed
that one up guys I'm sorry here ninet
Tales goes down easily Thunderbolt here
on the cloer we get confused no okay we
have leveled up to level 47 we make it
to Kadabra it goes psychic that's not
ideal but he Potions there he Thunders
there that was not what we wanted to see
the critical hit Thunder Kadabra goes
psychic but body slam gets a nice
critical hit there he Thunder waves us
we paralyzed him he paralyzed us but
then he just knocks us out okay so
clearly this is not that consistent at
least I think it's possible to win but
I'm not going to grind it like crazy
here let's just get over here and uh
take some fights otherwise I mean like
truly efficient grinding is probably
just putting the other Pokemon in the PC
and grinding this fight over and over
over again just because so many things
are one hitters like that guaranteed one
hitter that guaranteed one hitter this
one guaranteed one hitter now cloer is
where we have to you know we'd have to
get a good range okay it misses
supersonic though
Kadabra is still faster than us I don't
think we're going to Speed it for a
while but we get through nice we get to
level 49 there we paralyze his jolon
Thunder still did good damage and we
didn't get the
miss the AI this beautiful beautiful AI
but the whole point is that if if the
game considered the interactions of
dragon with electric first then we
wouldn't have to worry about these
electric moves there he misses the
Thunder Wave and we knock him out there
we go nice see we got through it's just
a matter of resets guys now Giovani
might be the very first fight in this
entire run where the dragon typing is
actually a detriment to Gyarados because
with the flying typing we can avoid all
of his ground type moves and while yes a
thunder could knock us out we've seen
that critical hits or guard spec allows
us to get through both of the NEOS and
then we could simply knock out the
rideon in a single hit so normal
Gyarados beats Giovani on its very first
attempt that being said the final level
was exactly identical and since rival
six's jilon is going to one-hot a normal
Gyarados with that Thunder it's not
really that much of an advantage as we
head on to the league but as we get to
the Elite 4 the challenge is never
really any of the members sure lur lies
kind of hard to get through but we got
Thunderbolt bruto's nothing Agatha is
just going to be random Lance is the
first time we might actually struggle in
this section given that he does use
electric type moves in Pokemon Yellow
but yeah so jarp he's still here at
about an hour and 12 minutes we do get a
use of rare candies once we get up here
to the league will we make four levels
in this section probably probably and
will'll into bed we get to level 65 here
I think this will work so here let's go
ahead and buy our full restores nice
we've put everything in the PC let's
save the game let's get up here and
fight Lord
lie here let's just
Thunderbolt we get paralysis okay she
goes for rest that doesn't really matter
because is still looking like a
two-hitter oh three hitter here but body
slam finishes the job Thunderbolt here
on The Cloister she's super potions
that's perfectly fine with us
Thunderbolt here on the slow bro she
goes psychic
that is also perfectly fine with us we
get to level 50 here's where I think we
can oh we get put to sleep by Jinx no
ATI Olga antie Olga no she kissed us
That's All She Wrote
guys so here we fainted we're just going
to keep the P or the XP pop back up
here I just think we might want to use
the rare candies later so I'm going to
avoid them for now we already know that
we're slower than Charizard anyway so it
doesn't feel too bad to just grind here
for a
minute and here this is going to be a
two hitter nice we're still slower than
Jinx goes double SLA though it's not
using ice type moves because the game
thinks that we are resistant to ice so
here Lapras is not going to use ice okay
we almost beat the Lapras there so this
is clearly a doable fight it's just
about act or uh confusion luck there
once we get to the Lapras get a take
down that's fine here level 51 comes in
here we're just going to easily beat the
Closter here slow bro can go for amnesia
I mean I guess it's it's kind of the
same either way thrash from Jinx but
we'll get through that easily
Thunderbolt
here Thunderbolt lands again and we get
through there we go lur no problem
whatsoever save the game and now let's
just beat up on
Bruno so here's surf just destroys that
one surf is going to destroy that one
surf destroys that one
surf like just look at these Pokemon
melt to just getting splash splashed
with some
water you just splash water on Bruno and
he goes down easy win we get to level 54
now is the spot where I think we might
want to start rare candying so I'm going
to rare candy up here remember we beat
the game last time at level 65 so I
think even just getting to level 60 here
dropping a full restore and this is
where we do want to start Elixir I think
this is the way to go so here Agatha
time
[Music]
but what we're going to do we are going
to
surf
first okay we actually wanted to uh like
Thunderbolt here on the gbat she
swapped okay she swaps to Haunter now
we're no longer confused very nice we
get confused again though Mega drain
fortunately is just neutral anyway
so we get a knock out that Gengar nice
we're going to knock out this Arbok I
think now it's just about the final
Gengar hypnosis missed goes for psychic
and he gets the crit to knock us out
we're going to reset right
there so here let's try again so here we
get a lick of course Agatha she's just
going to be random this whole time we
almost have that first Gengar knocked
out so we just need to land one more hit
any hit will'll
do we're confused but okay she doesn't
heal so we do get through there okay we
get the freeze with the ice beam there
on the Haunter so we just get a free KO
there we're going to get a free ko. here
on Arbok back to Gengar it hits us with
psychic did like 47 is damage I think as
long as we don't get another psychic two
psychics in a row there we go nice
Agatha Goes Down Easy easy win so now I
do think that Lance is one of those that
could be hard so I'm going to drop some
more rare candies here we can go up to
level 65 and still have one rare candy
left for the
champion so here against Gyarados
Thunderbolt right there oh did not mean
the Thunderbolt there rip here let's Ice
Beam there there nice let's go Ice Beam
right there cool here we're going to go
for the surf against Aerodactyl easy KO
there and Ice Beam on the Dragonite it's
an easy one hit ko. very nice so we've
made it to the champion we're slightly
under an hour 30 so the champion could
be where our Dragon Gyarados finally
realizes a massive advantage over a
regular gados in this run because here
we absolutely will end up getting hit by
an electric type move from the final
jolon but while a normal Gyarados gets
completely destroyed by that move our
Dragon Gyarados might just have a
[Music]
chance
let's just go ahead and surf right there
easy we get psyched by Alakazam but we
body slam it to death good Ice Beam we
get leech seated but I think that's fine
oyster comes out we Thunderbolt it to
death Ninetails just goes for the quick
attack that's perfectly fine jolon
thunderwave we get fully
paralyzed so we lost there I think
because of the paralysis so here let's
surf again
nice body slam here oh we got like a
crazy strong sbeam against us there that
was not
ideal okay Thunderbolt here takes that
one down surf there takes that one
down now Thunder body slam we get the
paralysis and there we go second ATT M
we beat the champion about an hour
2430 here's what we found right we ended
up with 62 optional battles 19 resets we
use six TMS so it drops our score all
the way down into the B tier
76.6 not great I think that you can
definitely be more efficient with this
of course Pokemon Red and Blue you'd get
through Brock without all those optional
battles so our Dragon Gyarados Beat the
Champ Ion at level 65 but that turns out
to be exactly the same level that I beat
him with a normal Gyarados now I did use
hyperbeam strategies and blizzard with
the normal Gyarados two moves that I
actually didn't use in this run but
effectively there wasn't much of an
advantage gained in the entire run from
the dragon typing which is a kind of
surprising result given that the dragon
typing removed all of our type
disadvantages the far more interesting
comparison is how our Dragon Gyarados
compares to the last run we did with a
dragon Charizard where Dragon Charizard
is Head and Shoulders better than Dragon
Gyarados and it all comes down to one
move the difference between gados and
Charizard the reason why Charizard is so
much better in this challenge is not
only does the dragon type cover up for
Charizard's
weaknesses it has access to sword
dance so basically the entire issue of a
Charizard run is just getting the Lance
and setting up the swords dances once
you're able to set up the swords dances
you're able to sweep his team and that's
the only real wall for a normal
Charizard the way that the dragon typing
makes it better of course is that in the
case of Charizard you do not have to
worry about getting just hydropump every
single turn and hydropump is neutrally
effective anyway rather than super
effective so you just get that situation
now where okay if he wants to Dragon
rage you three times in a row while you
just set up your swords dances and let
you sweep him from there that's
perfectly fine that's what Charizard
does and it just
dominates Gyarados is problem in my
opinion in gen one at least was the fact
that it didn't get any badge boosting
moves unless you're going to go double
team that's the only way to badge boost
as a Gyarados there's a huge separation
then between Pokemon that learn a badge
boosting move and those that don't you
can have top tier stats but without
badge boosting moves you're generally
just going to
underperform you can have really great
stats but without something like a
wrapping move or a sleep move you're
just going to really
underperform you generally find that
even mediocre Pokemon if they get
wrapping moves badge boosting moves at
least one or two good type coverage
moves
they generally do really really well in
these challenges gyos just doesn't get
any of that but it does beat the game
and uh that was not too bad honestly I
mean like 19 resets I know people can
kind of you know thumb their nose at
that but we didn't really have any spots
where we were going for crazy crazy
resets I mean rival 6 yes I could have
grinded for some more levels before that
Giovani we could have grinded more
levels before that but otherwise
everywhere that we had resets I think
was pretty logical made decent sense the
time was a little bit better with this
strategy overall if I do recall
correctly so I don't know I'm I'm
feeling like I don't think I did it
after dard but feeling like going and
beating up on Mewtwo what do you guys
say come on it's been a minute since
I've been here to beat up on Mewtwo so
here let's fight Mewtwo just cuz we can
I'm going to come in here I'm going to
body slam
him oh he barriers he knows he knows
guys but now it's too
late unless he does that so here we're
going to surf him he's barriered so I
think surf is the play and he still
kills
me oh Mewtwo you Legend So here come on
come on let me body slam you no he just
one hit koed me oh that was
terrible come on jarp you were supposed
to be the one
oh look how much damage that does with
the
crit oh and he barriers and then he just
destroys we need not to get hit by a
critical hit psychic and his crit chance
is 25% gen one look at that look at that
oh this is this is sad this is sad for
carp at this point you're pretty much
having to go for like the the
oh there we go okay I was going to say
we were going to have to go for freeze
strats oh but man here we are we have
made it to the end of the game with dra
carp level 67 this time we ended up with
195 attack 133 defense 135 speed 160
special 225 hp yeah the game says that
we're water flying don't worry about
that we're a water dragon we know it the
game is wrong guys this Pokemon was
always a dragon
clearly come in with a final move set of
surf ThunderBolt ice beam body slam it's
it's basically four moves that I think
pretty much everybody can get on board
with might haggle a little bit over oh
you should have added blizzard don't
think there was ever spot where blizzard
was you know like Ice Beam over blizzard
was the strategy don't think that ever
happened so I just avoided that TM but
there we go an hour 30 to get through
all the way through Mewtwo this time not
too bad anyway I'm going to get to
editing this down I hope you guys enjoy
it I will see you in the next one and
just for the channel members just expect
a bunch more guys coming up because now
that the overlay is mostly working yeah
we can see some warts here but now that
it's mostly working we're going to get
this going anyway that does it for this
one I will see you in the next one later
guys
[Music]
e